NASA


Jet Propulsion Laboratory
California Institute of Technology



Skip Navigation





								Center for Climate Sciences
							







Menu Icon

























                            Projects
                        





                                    Climate Data Analysis
                                





                                    MEaSUREs
                                



                                    Obs4MIPs
                                













                            Events
                        





                                    Seminars
                                



                                    Workshops
                                



                                    Summer School
                                













                            Resources
                        





                                    Multimedia
                                



                                    More Resources
                                













                            Climate Bytes
                        





                                    Recent Bytes
                                



                                    All Climate Bytes
                                













                            About the Center
                        





                                    Missions & Goals
                                



                                    Who We Are
                                



                                    Advisory Board
                                














 








									NASA Summer School on Satellite Observations and Climate Models
								



About


Details


Apply






											About
										

											Details
										

											Apply
										






										Organized by the JPL Center for Climate Sciences and the Keck Institute for Space Studies

									



											Dates: July 31–August 1 (virtual) and August 5–9 (in-person) Attendance REQUIRED for ALL dates
										

									    This event will be held in two parts: 
									     
July 31–August 1 2024 half days online
5–9 Aug. 2024 full days in person at at the Keck Institute for Space Studies (KISS) at 
												the California Institute of Technology (Caltech), Pasadena, CA. 


									Workshop format is subject to change dependent on COVID-19 conditions in late summer. 
                                     

COVID-19 Vaccination Requirements

										All participants must be fully vaccinated, including booster, to be allowed onto the Caltech campus. Verification of vaccination status
										will be required prior to acceptance into the Summer School.  Masking requirements will be determined by county, city, and campus policies at the time.
									
About the Summer School
Each year the Center for Climate Sciences brings together the next generation of climate scientists – approximately 25 graduate students and postdocs from around the world – to engage with premier climate scientists.
Our yearly summer school focuses on the topic of "Using Satellite Observations to Advance Climate Models". Students will explore how satellite observations can be used to evaluate and improve climate models, and will hear from a range of speakers on climate model diagnostics and evaluation and remote sensing of the planet.
Program Topics will include:


Global Climate Models


Satellite Remote Sensing


Climate Model Diagnostics and Evaluation


Student travel and accommodation expenses are included.
Student Selection
Up to 25 students will be selected by the Center to participate in the Summer School. We accept applications from graduate students and postdoctoral researchers that are actively engaged in climate modeling, using satellite observations of Earth, researching the physical climate system, climate modeling, or related fields. However, we will also consider applications from exceptional undergraduate students working in these areas.
Application
 Applying does not confirm participation in the Summer School.  We will contact successful applicants in early June.  
									
The information about your work and interests which you provide in your application is what we use to assess your fit for this opportunity. Please be thoughtful and thorough.

Apply now for the 2024 CCS Summer School.



                                        The application period will close on May 1, 2024 (9pm Pacific Time).


Previous Summer Schools
Each year we host a summer school that brings together the next generation of climate scientists to engage with premier climate scientists from the Jet Propulsion Laboratory and elsewhere. Our inaugural summer school was held in 2011. Learn more about some of our previous summer schools.
 › View all past Center for Climate Sciences Summer Schools






											Application Period Now Open!
										


										The 2024 JPL Center for Climate Sciences Summer School program will take place July 31–August 1 (virtual) and August 5–9 (in-person). 
                                     
Apply now for the 2024 CCS Summer School.





										Before you apply please be aware;
									
									
Attendance is expected for all sessions and may include some evening gatherings. 
Cooperative group work is a significant element of the experience.
Participation enriches the program for all attendees. Discussion is strongly encouraged.





											Other Summer School topics may include;
										


Radiative Transfer
Satellite Remote Sensing
The Climate System
Climate Statistics
Monitoring sea level from space
Large Scale Dynamics
CMIP/IPCC Process and Model Diagnostics
Climate Models: Atmospheric Physics
Observations for Components of the Water Cycle; Modeling/Assimilation
Atmospheric Passive Remote Sensing
Climate Models: Ocean and Ice Physics
Land Surface Physics
Atmospheric Composition and Retrieval Theory
Data-Assimilation









											About the Facilities
										





The Keck Institute for Space Studies (KISS) is located within the Keck Center and the Tolman/Bacher House at Caltech in Pasadena, California.
We have a Think Tank workshop room in the Keck Center that seats 30 people at computer tables. A fast wireless internet connection is available. This room is used for talks, breakout sessions and discussions. A laptop and a projector are at the front of the room.
A color printer, a fax machine and a copier are located near the pantry and are available for use by any of the participants in the Keck Center.
KISS staff offices are located in the Tolman/Bacher house and the office of the directors is located in the Keck Center. Please do not hesitate to ask a KISS member if you need assistance.





            Questions
        


        Have a question about the JPL Center for Climate Sciences Summer School program that isn’t answered here? Send us an email.
    

Send us an email










You Might Also Like












                            JPL  MEaSUREs
                             
                           LST&E MEaSUREs Project
                        









                     JPL  MEaSUREs - Featured Project
                









                           
                            Summer School 2024  
                           July 31–August 1 (virtual) and August 5–9 (in-person)
                            
The application period is now open! 










                    Summer School 2024 Application Now Open
                









                           Center for Climate Sciences Lecture Series
                            
                            Up Next! February 2, 2024 Hartmut “George” Aumann on Northward Shift and Narrowing of the ITCZ in 20 Years of AIRS Data
                        









                   Up Next! February 2, 2024
                















Projects






Climate Data Analysis 



Obs4MIPs










Events






Seminars


Workshops


Summer School










Resources






Multimedia


More Resources











About the Center






Missions & Goals


Who We Are


Advisory Board
















NASA
|
Caltech
|

Feedback

|

JPL Privacy Statement

|
Image Policy
|
FAQ






                              Site Manager: 
                              Margaret Srinivasan







NASA


Jet Propulsion Laboratory
California Institute of Technology