HOME




FORECAST 
   Local   Graphical   Aviation   Marine   Rivers and Lakes   Hurricanes   Severe Weather   Fire Weather   Sun/Moon   Long Range Forecasts   Climate Prediction   Space Weather  


PAST WEATHER 
   Past Weather   Heating/Cooling Days   Monthly Temperatures   Records   Astronomical Data  


SAFETY 
   Floods   Tsunamis   Beach Hazards   Wildfire   Cold   Tornadoes   Air Quality   Fog   Heat   Hurricanes   Lightning   Safe Boating   Rip Currents   Thunderstorms   Space Weather   Sun (Ultraviolet Radiation)   Safety Campaigns   Wind   Drought   Winter Weather  


INFORMATION 
   Wireless Emergency Alerts   Brochures   Weather-Ready Nation   Cooperative Observers   Daily Briefing   Damage/Fatality/Injury Statistics   Forecast Models   GIS Data Portal   NOAA Weather Radio   Publications   SKYWARN Storm Spotters   StormReady   TsunamiReady   Service Change Notices  


EDUCATION 
   Be A Force of Nature   NWS Education Home  


NEWS 
   NWS News   Events   Pubs/Brochures/Booklets    NWS Media Contacts  


SEARCH 






Search For




NWS

All NOAA









ABOUT 
   About NWS   Organization   Strategic Plan   Commitment to Diversity   For NWS Employees   International   National Centers   Careers   Contact Us   Glossary   Social Media  








Local forecast by "City, St" or ZIP code



Sorry, the location you searched for was not found. Please try another search.
Multiple locations were found. Please select one of the following:



Location Help








News Headlines




Advanced Hydrologic Prediction Service (AHPS) Getting Replaced by the National Water Prediction Service (NWPS)
Winter 2023-2024 Edition of Our Wilmington Wave Newsletter
NWS Product Translation to Different Languages
















Customize Your Weather.gov



Enter Your City, ST or ZIP Code

Remember Me



Privacy Policy




LOADING...




  NWS Wilmington, NC Weather Forecast Office   2023-2024 Winter Outlook for Northeastern SC and Southeastern NC  Weather.gov > NWS Wilmington, NC > 2023-2024 Winter Outlook for Northeastern SC and Southeastern NC         
     Current Hazards     River Flooding   Briefing Page   Winter   Space   Local Outlook   Drought   Thunderstorms   Hurricanes   Submit Storm Report   Hazard Criteria       Current Conditions     Observations (List)   Rainfall   Air Quality   Satellite   Observations (Map)   Marine Obs (Map)   Marine Obs (List)       Radar     Local KLTX Standard Radar (low bandwidth)   Local KLTX Enhanced Radar   Regional Standard Radar (low bandwidth)   National Standard Radar (low bandwidth)       Forecasts     Forecasters' Discussion   Hourly View   Map View   Aviation   Tropical   Activity Planner   Marine/Ocean    Beach/Surf   Coastal Flooding   Fire Weather   Forecast Products   Mobile Forecasts       Rivers and Lakes     River Observations (Map)   River Forecasts (Map)   Current & Past Streamflow   Ensemble River Guidance   River Forecast Centers   Local River Summary       Climate and Past Weather     Past Observed Weather   24 Hour Summary   CoCoRaHS   Past Rainfall   Snowfall Records   Drought Outlook   Historical Records   Climate Prediction   Drought Information Statement   Climate Plots   Significant Event Archive   Weather History Calendar   Severe Storm Climatology   Tropical Cyclone Reports       Local Programs     About Our Office   Education/Outreach   Storm/Tsunami Ready   Skywarn Storm Spotters    CoCoRaHS Observers   Student Volunteers   Science/Technology   NOAA Weather Radio      










 





Ocean temperature anomalies in mid Nov 2023




 
For the first time in four years, El Niño has returned and should be the controlling factor for this winter's weather across North and South Carolina.  
El Niño is natural, periodic warming of ocean water across the tropical east Pacific Ocean that brings global impacts to temperatures, rainfall, wind, and pressure patterns.  El Niño is known during the summer and fall for its suppressing influence on Atlantic tropical cyclone activity, but often brings its largest impacts to the Carolinas during the winter when it increases the potential for above normal rainfall across the southern United States.
The last two strong El Niño events, 1997-1998 and 2015-2016, both brought exceptional rainfall totals across the coastal Carolinas.  Over 23 inches of rain fell in Wilmington between December 1997 and February 1998 -- our wettest winter season in over 150 years of records.  Given the moderate to severe drought conditions that are currently in place over large portions of the Carolinas, an outlook of increased chances for substantial rainfall is very good news.
Learn more about El Niño from the National Ocean Service...
 





Monthly and seasonal temperature and precipitation outlooks from the NWS Climate Prediction Center for the winter of 2023-2024




 
 
Rainfall
Winter outlooks from the NWS Climate Prediction Center show an increased potential for above normal precipitation totals during the month of December.  For the remainder of the winter (January and February) the potential for above normal precipitation increases further: across eastern North and South Carolina there is a 70 percent chance that this winter's precipitation totals will reach the upper one-third of historical measurements, and only a 3 percent chance that they will fall within in the lowest one-third.



 
Wilmington, NC
Florence, SC
N. Myrtle Beach, SC
Lumberton, NC


1991-2020 Average Winter Precipitation Total
10.97"
9.55"
9.29"
8.63"


El Niño Average Winter Precipitation
13.45" (+2.48")
11.28" (+1.73")
12.27" (+2.98")
10.54" (+1.91")


Neutral ENSO Average Winter Precipitation
11.13" (+0.16")
9.55" (+0.00")
8.49" (-0.80")
10.08" (+1.45")


La Niña Average Winter Precipitation
8.72" (-2.25")
8.21" (-1.34")
8.20" (-1.09")
7.95" (-0.68")



 
An increase in winter rainfall totals is the single largest impact El Niño typically brings to the eastern Carolinas.
Moderate to severe drought has developed across large portions of the southeastern United States including North and South Carolina due to unusually dry weather since summer.  The U.S. Drought Monitor shows 48 percent of South Carolina and 72 percent of North Carolina is experiencing moderate or worse drought conditions as of mid November.  In Wilmington, 90-day rainfall totals are nearly seven inches below normal.  Over the past month less than one inch of rain has fallen in Florence, SC and Lumberton, NC.
 





The U.S. Drought Monitor valid for mid November, and the CPC outlook for drought during the winter 2023-2024 season.  Moderate drought currently ongoing across portions of the eastern Carolinas is forecast to improve this winter due to plentiful rainfall.




 
El Niño increases the odds that substantial rainfall will occur this winter.  Should this outlook verify, the ongoing drought should improve and may completely end before spring arrives.
Another positive aspect of this winter's El Niño should be a lessening of the risk of wildfire.  According to the most recent outlook from the National Interagency Fire Center, expected ample precipitation through the winter should lead to a below normal risk of wildfire across the Southeast, including the Carolinas, by February.





Wildland Fire Outlook for December 2023



Wildland Fire Outlook for January 2024



Wildland Fire Outlook for February 2024




 
 
Temperatures
The difference in average seasonal temperature between El Niño, ENSO-neutral, and La Niña winters is not especially large.  In general, El Niño winters are slightly cooler than either La Niña or neutral winters for local cities.



 
Wilmington, NC
Florence, SC
N. Myrtle Beach, SC
Lumberton, NC


1991-2022 Average Winter Temperature
48.6°
48.2°
48.5°
46.3°


El Niño Average Winter Temperature
48.0° (-0.6°)
47.5° (-0.7°)
48.2 (-0.3°)
45.9 (-0.4°)


Neutral ENSO Average Winter Temperature
49.4° (+0.8°)
49.1° (+0.8°)
49.3 (+0.8°)
46.6 (+0.3°)


La Niña Average Winter Temperature
48.5° (-0.1°)
48.0° (-0.2°)
48.1 (-0.4°)
46.4 (+0.1°)



 
El Niño does not appear to bring a significant increase in the number or severity of arctic outbreaks this far south. Instead, the decrease in average temperature appears to be more related to a larger number of cool, cloudy winter days during El Niño.  This is due to the jet stream usually shifting farther south during El Niño winters, plus an increase in the amount of moisture carried northward by the subtropical jet stream.  A more detailed explanation is provided on Climate.gov.





Warm tropical east Pacific ocean water during El Niño creates  thunderstorms which feed moisture northward toward the Carolinas via the subtropical jet stream.  This lead to additional cool, cloudy days locally.



North American Multimodel Ensemble (NMME) temperature forecast for January through March. CPC is forecasting an enhanced potential for above normal temperatures in December, then CPC and the model ensemble show near-normal temperatures for the remainder of the winter into March.




 
 
Snow





January 28-29, 2014 snowstorm in Wilmington, NC




Snow is an uncommon occurrence across eastern North and South Carolina.  Not every winter sees measurable snow occur, and when it does amounts are typically small.  Major snowstorms (six or more inches of snow) haven't occurred in Wilmington since December 1989 and since January 2000 in Florence, SC.  
Epic snowstorms where a foot or more of snow has fallen have occurred only three times in Wilmington's history:  February 17-18, 1896; February 9-11, 1973; and December 22-24, 1989.  In Florence, SC, where climate records only extend back to 1948, only the Feburary 1973 snowstorm has produced over a foot of accumulation.
Since 1950, 50 percent of El Niño winters (13 out of 26) saw at least some measurable snowfall (0.1 inches or greater) in Wilmington and Florence. But despite the rather meager probability of snow, El Niño winters collectively have had the highest average snowfall totals, larger than those observed during ENSO-neutral or La Niña winters.  
Examination of the climate record shows major snowstorms in February 1973, March 1980, and January 1988, all while El Niño was occurring, were primarily responsible for this bump in historical averages.



 
El Niño chance of measurable snow
Neutral chance of measurable snow
La Niña chance of measurable snow
 
El Niño avg snowfall
Neutral avg snowfall
La Niña avg snowfall


Wilmington, NC
50%
58%
54%
 
1.9"
1.7"
1.3"


Florence, SC
50%
74%
43%
 
2.4"
2.1"
1.3"



 
When sufficient cold air is present, the enhancement in precipitation frequency and totals that El Niño brings can help produce a significant snowstorm here across the eastern Carolinas.  But tempering our expectations for this winter: the most recent 30-year period used for climate normals (1991 through 2020) has the smallest average snowfall for any time in Wilmington's climate record, only 0.9 inches per year.  This is likely related to ongoing climate change which has led to warmer temperatures.





Wilmington, NC's complete annual snowfall history since 1871 with calculated 30-year normals.  The average annual snowfall of only 0.9 inches during the period 1991 to 2020 is the smallest on record.




 
"How does El Niño affect snowfall over North America?" from Climate.gov
 
 
Tides and Coastal Flooding
Predicted astronomical tides will remain rather small through February.  The highest astronomical tide of the season will occur December 13-14 at only 6.17 feet MLLW at Myrtle Beach and 5.05 feet MLLW at Wrightsville Beach.  This is almost one foot below minor flood stage at both beaches, and means there would need to be a rather large tidal anomaly produced by weather systems (onshore wind or nearby strong low pressure) to produce coastal flooding. 





Nor'easter of November 6-8, 2021




However research from the U.S. Naval Academy shows that El Niño can help to increase the number of strong winter storms, often called Nor'easters, along the Atlantic coast.  Depending on the strength and their precise storm track, Nor'easters can create significant coastal flooding due to strong onshore winds that continue across several tide cycles.
A Nor'easter on January 1, 1987 produced severe impacts along the North Carolina coastline. The Wilmington Star-News reported "a three-quarter mile stretch of South Topsail Island was under up to 3 feet of water" and that flooding was observed on streets in Wrightsville Beach.  This occurred during an El Niño winter.   
Hourly forecasts for water levels at Wrightsville Beach, Myrtle Beach, and the Cape Fear River at downtown Wilmington are available on the Advanced Hydrological Prediction Service webpage.  These forecasts are made by NWS meteorologists and include storm surge and tidal anomalies.
 
Additional Links

NWS Climate Prediction Center
Current ENSO Status and Predictions
Daily Climate Normals and Records for Wilmington, North Myrtle Beach, Florence, and Lumberton 
Historical snowfall for Wilmington, Myrtle Beach, and Florence
U.S. Drought Monitor - Southeast

 
Research and Page Author: Tim Armstrong
Last Updated: November 20, 2023












Radar


Current Weather


Rivers & Lakes


Satellite


Forecast Maps


Hour by Hour Forecast


Winter Weather


Graphical Hazards


Text Products


Marine Forecasts


Sunrise/Sunset


Beach & Surf


Coastal Flood 


Weather Hazard Briefing


Forecaster's Discussion


Skywarn


Climate Plots


NOAA Weather Radio








  Follow us on Twitter
                		





  Follow us on Facebook
                		





  Follow us on YouTube
            			






  ILM RSS Feed
						
















Forecasts

Local Forecasts 
Marine 
Tropical  
Graphical 
Aviation 
Rain and Rivers 
Fire Weather 
Discussion 
Beach, Rip Current and Surf 
Rip Current Risk
Surf Forecast 
Coastal Flood
Weather Activity Planner 
Forecast Graph/Tab/Text 
Model Guidance 





Hazards

Mobile Weather
Briefing Page
Local Hazards 
Hazardous Weather Outlook 
Latest Briefing 
Social Media Feeds 
EM Briefing
NOAA Weather Radio 
Submit Storm Report





Current Conditions

Marine Obs (List) 
Observations Map 
Satellite
Marine Obs (Map)
Local Observations (List)
Regional Temps and Precipitation 
Daily Temp and Precip Summary 





Radar

NWS Wilmington Radar 
Southeast Regional Radar 
Enhanced National Radar  
National Radar 



Past Weather and Hydrology

Local Climate Records 
Climate Plots 
Local Hydro Information 
Rainfall and Rivers 
Past Significant Events
Weather History Calendar





Additional Information

About Us
FAQs
Office Newsletter 
Weather Safety 
NWS Product Guide 
Mobile Weather 
Office History Timeline
Request a Tour/Presentation





Office Programs

NOAA Weather Radio 
Skywarn 
CoCoRaHS  
Storm Ready 
Science and Technology
Education and Outreach 













US Dept of Commerce
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
National Weather Service
                        NWS Wilmington, NC2015 Gardner DriveWilmington, NC 28405(910) 762-4289Comments? Questions? Please Contact Us. 



Disclaimer
Information Quality
Help
Glossary


Privacy Policy
Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)
About Us
Career Opportunities