Go to Main Content (Accesskey 2)Go to Site Menu (Accesskey 3)




National Aeronautics and Space Administration
Goddard Institute for Space Studies

Goddard Space Flight CenterSciences and Exploration DirectorateEarth Sciences Division




GISTEMP v4 Figures
Graphs


Global Maps


Station Data


Zonal Means: Series or Seasonal Cycle


Animations






GISS Surface Temperature Analysis (GISTEMP v4)

The GISS Surface Temperature Analysis version 4 (GISTEMP v4) is an estimate of global surface temperature change.
Graphs and tables are updated around the middle of every month using current data files from NOAA GHCN
v4 (meteorological stations) and ERSST v5 (ocean areas), combined as
described in our publications
Hansen et al. (2010) and
Lenssen et al. (2019).
These updated files incorporate reports for the previous month and also late reports
and corrections for earlier months.

News and Updates

Feb. 8, 2024:
3 stations in Northern Canada were discovered to have a discontinuity in their records that is not present in the any other station in that area. This was reported to NOAA/NCEI and the reports after the discontinuity were removed.

Jan. 12, 2024:
NASA has posted a news release 2023 annual global temperature anomaly.
The NASA Earth Observatory website has also posted an explainer about causes of the record anomaly.

Oct. 13, 2023:
NASA has posted a short feature about the September 2023 global temperature anomaly.

Sep. 14, 2023:
NASA has posted a news release about the Summer (JJA) 2023 global temperature anomaly.
See the
GISTEMP News page for a list of announcements and NASA articles related to the GISTEMP analysis.
Announcements when our monthly updates are released are posted to the NASA/GISS Twitter feed.
See the
Updates to Analysis page for detailed update information about GISTEMP v4.

Contacts/Personnel

Before contacting us, please check if your question about the GISTEMP analysis is already answered in
the FAQ.


If the FAQ does not answer your question,
please address your inquiry to
Dr. Reto Ruedy.

Other researchers currently participating in the GISTEMP analysis include
Michael Hendrickson,
Maxwell Elling,
Dr. Makiko Sato,
and Dr. Nathan Lenssen.


The GISTEMP analysis was initiated by Dr. James E. Hansen, now retired.
It is currently led by Dr. Gavin Schmidt.

Past members on the GISTEMP team have included
Dr. Sergej Lebedeff,
Dr. Helene Wilson,
Jay Glascoe,
Avraham Persin,
Dr. Ken Lo, and others.
We also thank Nick Barnes et al. at the Clear Climate Code project for their contributions.

Citation

When referencing the GISTEMP v4 data provided here,
please cite both this webpage and also our most recent
scholarly publication about the data.
In citing the webpage, be sure to include the date of access.

GISTEMP Team, 2024:
GISS Surface Temperature Analysis (GISTEMP), version 4. NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies.
Dataset accessed 20YY-MM-DD at https://data.giss.nasa.gov/gistemp/.
Lenssen, N., G. Schmidt, J. Hansen, M. Menne, A. Persin, R. Ruedy, and D. Zyss, 2019: Improvements in the GISTEMP uncertainty model. J. Geophys. Res. Atmos., 124, no. 12, 6307-6326, doi:10.1029/2018JD029522.

Graphics from these GISTEMP pages are subject to NASA
Image and Media guidance.
Per those guidelines, graphics you may create using the website tools here do not require
permission for you to use elsewhere, but acknowledgment of their source should be given.
Please credit "NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies" or, if space is limited,
"NASA GISS/GISTEMP".

Background, History and Updates

The basic GISS temperature analysis scheme was defined in the late 1970s by James Hansen when a method
of estimating global temperature change was needed for comparison with one-dimensional global climate
models.
The analysis method was fully documented in
Hansen and Lebedeff (1987).
Several papers describing updates to the analysis followed over the following decades,
most recently that of
Hansen et al. (2010),
as well as the uncertainty quantification of 
Lenssen et al. (2019).
For further details, please see the GISTEMP
Background,
History, and
References pages.
We also maintain a running record of modifications made to the analysis on our
Updates to Analysis page. 
The GISTEMP analysis is updated regularly. Graphs and tables are posted around the
middle of every month using the latest GHCN and ERSST data. The update incorporates reports
for the previous month as well as late reports and corrections for earlier months.
Source Code
Programs used in the GISTEMP analysis and documentation on their use are
available for download.
The programs assume a Unix-like operating system and require familiarity with Python for installation and use.

Tables of Global and Hemispheric Monthly Means and Zonal Annual Means
Combined Land-Surface Air and Sea-Surface Water Temperature Anomalies
(Land-Ocean Temperature Index, L-OTI)
The following are plain-text files in tabular format of temperature anomalies, i.e. deviations from the corresponding 1951-1980 means.

Global-mean monthly, seasonal, and annual means, 1880-present, updated through most recent
    month:
    TXT,
    CSV
Northern Hemisphere-mean monthly, seasonal, and annual means, 1880-present, updated through
    most recent month:
    TXT,
    CSV

Southern Hemisphere-mean monthly, seasonal, and annual means, 1880-present, updated through
    most recent month:
    TXT,
    CSV

Zonal annual means, 1880-present, updated through most recent complete year:
    TXT,
    CSV

AIRS v6 and AIRS v7 Temperature Anomalies
The following tables show anomalies based on AIRS data vs. 2007-2016. Corresponding L-OTI anomaly data are also provided.

Global-mean monthly, seasonal, and annual means, 2002-present, updated through most recent
    month:
    TXT,
    CSV

Northern Hemisphere-mean monthly, seasonal, and annual means, 2002-present, updated through
    most recent month:
    TXT,
    CSV

Southern Hemisphere-mean monthly, seasonal, and annual means, 2002-present, updated through
    most recent month:
    TXT,
    CSV

Zonal annual means, 2002-present, updated through most recent complete year:
    TXT,
    CSV


Gridded Monthly Temperature Anomaly Data

Users interested in the entire gridded surface air temperature anomaly data may
download netCDF files containing selected series on a regular 2°×2°
grid or the basic SBBX binary files.
Compressed NetCDF Files (regular 2°×2° grid)

Land-Ocean Temperature Index, ERSSTv5, 1200km smoothing (23 MB)
Surface air temperature (no ocean data), 250km smoothing (9 MB)
Land Mask on a 2°×2° grid

Compressed Zarr Directories (regular 2°×2° grid)

Land-Ocean Temperature Index, ERSSTv5, 1200km smoothing (53 MB)
Surface air temperature (no ocean data), 250km smoothing (27 MB)

Compressed Basic Subbox Grid Series (equal-area grid)

Surface air temperature, 1200km smoothing - GISTEMP v4 (27 MB)
Surface air temperature, 250km smoothing - GISTEMP v4 (9 MB)
Sea surface air temperature (ERSSTv5), currently used (30 MB)
Sea surface air temperature (ERSSTv4), used until July 2017 (30 MB)
Sea surface air temperature (ERSSTv3b),  used until June 2015 (30 MB)
Sea surface air temperature (HadR2), used until Nov. 2012 (30 MB)


Also available are various FORTRAN programs and instructions to create (time series of) regular gridded
anomaly maps from the basic files. Be sure to read the README file for discussion of the files' binary
format.


README.txt
mkTsMap.f
SBBX_to_nc.f
SBBX_to_1x1.f
SBBX_to_txt.f





References
Please see the GISTEMP references page for citations to publications
related to this research.
Copies of many of our papers are available in the GISS publications database.




Related Links

+ Frequently Asked Questions
+ GISTEMP History
+ Uncertainty Quantification
+ UN FAOSTAT Temperature Data
+ NOAA/NCEI State of the Climate
+ Update Release Schedule
Data Sources:
+ Land data: GHCN v4
+ Ocean data: ERSST v5
+ El Niño data
+ AIRS Data v6
+ AIRS Data v7




Site Menu

GISS Home
News & Features

News & Features Overview
Projects & Groups

Projects Overview
Global Climate Modeling
Astrobiology / ROCKE-3D
Climate Impacts
ISCCPDatasets

Datasets Overview
GISTEMP Surface Temperature
Model E Simulations
Model Forcings
ROCKE-3D Simulations
ISCCP Data Products
GACP Data Products
Publications

Publications Overview
2024 Publications
2023 Publications
2022 Publications
2021 Publications
2020 Publications
Accepted & In Press
Author Bibliographies
Annual Best
Most Cited
Dissertations
Software

Software Overview
GCM Model E
Panoply Data Viewer
G.Projector
Mars24 Sunclock
Education

Education Overview
Graduate Study
Postdoc Research
Internships
CCRI
STEM Curriculum Modules
Events

Events Overview
Lunch Seminars
Past Events
About GISS

About GISS
Management Staff
Personnel Directory
Visitors' Info
Employment







NASA Official:

Gavin A. Schmidt
Website Curator:

Robert B. Schmunk
Page updated: 2024-02-08 10:46

NASA Privacy Policy & Important Notices
Contact UsImage Use