Select Region
				










United States










United Kingdom










Germany










India










Australia










Italy










Canada

































                    Credit Cards                








Credit Cards




                                    Credit Cards                                




                                            Compare Credit Cards                                            



                                                    Best Credit Cards                                                

                                                    Credit Card Comparison                                                

                                                    Best Travel Credit Cards                                                

                                                    Best Cash Back Credit Cards                                                

                                                    Best 0% APR Credit Cards                                                

                                                    Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards                                                

                                                    Best Rewards Credit Cards                                                

                                                    Best Airline Credit Cards                                                

                                                    Best Credit Cards for International Travel                                                

                                                    Best Credit Cards For Bad Credit                                                

                                                    Best Student Credit Cards                                                

                                                    Best Secured Credit Cards                                                

                                                    Best First Credit Cards                                                

                                                    Best Credit Cards For No Credit                                                

                                                    Best Gas Credit Cards                                                






                                            Compare Business Cards                                            



                                                    Best Business Credit Cards                                                

                                                    Best Business Credit Cards For Travel                                                

                                                    Best Cash Back Business Credit Cards                                                

                                                    Best 0% APR Business Credit Cards                                                

                                                    Best Business Credit Cards For Startups                                                






                                            Credit Card Reviews                                            



                                                    Capital One Venture X                                                

                                                    Chase Sapphire Preferred                                                

                                                    American Express Platinum                                                

                                                    Chase Sapphire Reserve                                                

                                                    American Express Gold                                                

                                                    Wells Fargo Active Cash                                                

                                                    More Credit Card Reviews                                                






                                            Credit Cards By Issuer                                            



                                                    Best Wells Fargo Credit Cards                                                

                                                    Best American Express Credit Cards                                                

                                                    Best Chase Credit Cards                                                

                                                    Best Capital One Credit Cards                                                

                                                    Best Discover Credit cards                                                






                                            Calculators                                            



                                                    Credit Card Interest Calculator                                                

                                                    Balance Transfer Calculator                                                

                                                    Credit Card Payoff Calculator                                                






                                            Credit Score & Credit Repair                                            



                                                    Best Credit Repair Companies                                                

                                                    Best Credit Monitoring Services                                                

                                                    How Much Does Credit Repair Cost?                                                

                                                    How To Fix Your Credit In 7 Easy Steps                                                









                    Loans                








Loans




                                    Loans                                




                                            Personal Loans                                            



                                                    Best Personal Loans                                                

                                                    Personal Loan Rates                                                

                                                    Best Debt Consolidation Loans                                                

                                                    Easiest Personal Loans                                                

                                                    Best Low-Interest Personal Loans                                                

                                                    Best Personal Loans For Fair Credit                                                

                                                    Best Bad Credit Loans                                                

                                                    Best Joint Personal Loans                                                

                                                    Best Wedding Loans                                                

                                                    Best Personal Loans For Veterans                                                






                                            Student Loans                                            



                                                    Best Student Loans                                                

                                                    Best Student Loan Refinance Lenders                                                

                                                    Best Parent Loan For College                                                

                                                    Best Low-Interest Student Loans                                                

                                                    Best Graduate Student Loans                                                

                                                    Best Medical School Loans                                                

                                                    Lenders To Refinance Parent PLUS Loans                                                

                                                    Student Loan Calculator                                                

                                                    Student Loan Refinance Calculator                                                






                                            Business Loans                                            



                                                    Best Business Loans                                                

                                                    Best Business Lines Of Credit                                                

                                                    Best Startup Business Loans                                                

                                                    Best Unsecured Business Loans                                                

                                                    Fast Approval Business Loans                                                

                                                    Best Working Capital Loans                                                

                                                    Best Same-Day Business Loans                                                

                                                    Best Business Loans For Bad Credit                                                

                                                    Business Loan Calculator                                                






                                            Auto Loans                                            



                                                    Auto Loan Rates                                                

                                                    Auto Loan Refinancing Rates                                                









                    Mortgages                








Mortgages




                                    Mortgages                                




                                            Home Buying & Refinancing                                            



                                                    Best Mortgage Lenders                                                

                                                    Best Mortgage Refinance Lenders                                                

                                                    Best Online Mortgage Lenders                                                

                                                    Best VA Mortgage Lenders                                                

                                                    Best USDA Mortgage Lenders                                                

                                                    Best Mortgage Lenders for FHA Loans                                                






                                            Mortgage Rates                                            



                                                    Today's Mortgage Rates                                                

                                                    Current Mortgage Rates: Compare Today’s Rates                                                

                                                    Today's Mortgage Refinance Rates                                                

                                                    Current Mortgage Refinance Rates                                                

                                                    15 Year Mortgage Rates                                                

                                                    10 Year Mortgage Rates                                                

                                                    Today’s VA Mortgage Rates                                                

                                                    Today’s VA Refinance Rates                                                

                                                    Historical Mortgage Rates                                                






                                            Home Equity Loans                                            



                                                    Best HELOC Rates                                                

                                                    Best HELOC Lenders                                                

                                                    Best Home Equity Loan Rates                                                

                                                    Best Home Equity Loan Lenders                                                

                                                    HELOC Calculator                                                

                                                    Home Equity Loan Calculator                                                






                                            Calculators                                            



                                                    Mortgage Refinance Calculator                                                

                                                    Mortgage Calculator                                                

                                                    Mortgage Amortization Calculator                                                

                                                    Mortgage APR Calculator                                                

                                                    Cash-Out Refinance Calculator                                                






                                            Real Estate                                            



                                                    How Much House Can I Afford? Calculator                                                

                                                    Housing Market Predictions                                                









                    Insurance                








Insurance




                                    Insurance                                




                                            Car Insurance                                            



                                                    Best Car Insurance                                                

                                                    Cheap Car Insurance                                                

                                                    Compare Car Insurance Quotes                                                

                                                    Car Insurance Calculator                                                

                                                    Cost Of Car Insurance                                                

                                                    Best Car Insurance In Florida                                                

                                                    Best Car Insurance In California                                                

                                                    Best Car Insurance In Texas                                                






                                            Travel Insurance                                            



                                                    Best Travel Insurance                                                

                                                    Best Covid Travel Insurance                                                

                                                    Best Cruise Travel Insurance                                                

                                                    Cancel For Any Reason Insurance                                                

                                                    How Much Is Travel Insurance?                                                

                                                    Cheap Travel Insurance                                                

                                                    Travel Insurance & Destinations                                                






                                            Life Insurance                                            



                                                    Best Life Insurance                                                

                                                    Best Term Life Insurance                                                

                                                    Best Senior Life Insurance                                                

                                                    No-Exam Life Insurance                                                

                                                    Compare Life Insurance Quotes                                                

                                                    How Much Is Life Insurance?                                                

                                                    Cheap Life Insurance                                                

                                                    Life Insurance Calculator                                                






                                            Homeowners Insurance                                            



                                                    Home Insurance Companies                                                

                                                    Compare Home Insurance Quotes                                                

                                                    Home Insurance Calculator                                                

                                                    Average Cost Of Homeowners Insurance                                                

                                                    How Much Home Insurance Do I Need?                                                






                                            Renters Insurance                                            



                                                    Best Renters Insurance                                                

                                                    Cheap Renters Insurance                                                

                                                    How Much Is Renters Insurance?                                                






                                            Pet Insurance                                            



                                                    Best Pet Insurance                                                

                                                    Compare Pet Insurance Quotes                                                

                                                    Is Pet Insurance Worth It In 2024?                                                

                                                    Cheap Pet Insurance                                                

                                                    How Much Does Pet Insurance Cost?                                                

                                                    Pet Insurance Pre-Existing Conditions                                                






                                            Health Insurance                                            



                                                    Best Health Insurance Companies                                                

                                                    Best Short-Term Health Insurance                                                

                                                    Best Disability Insurance                                                

                                                    Health Insurance for Small Business                                                

                                                    Best Dental Insurance Companies                                                

                                                    Best Vision Insurance Companies                                                






                                            Business Insurance                                            



                                                    Best Small Business Insurance                                                

                                                    Best General Liability Insurance                                                

                                                    Commercial Auto Insurance                                                

                                                    Cyber Liability Insurance                                                

                                                    Business Interruption Insurance                                                









                    Banking                








Banking




                                    Banking                                




                                            Best Banks                                            



                                                    Best Banks                                                

                                                    Best Online Banks                                                

                                                    Best Credit Unions                                                

                                                    Best Budget Apps                                                






                                            Bank Promotions & Bonuses                                            



                                                    Best Bank Bonuses & Promotions                                                

                                                    Capital One Promotions                                                

                                                    Chase Promotions                                                

                                                    Wells Fargo Checking Account Bonus                                                

                                                    Bank Of America Promotions                                                

                                                    US Bank Promotions                                                






                                            CDs                                            



                                                    Best CD Rates                                                

                                                    CD Rates Today                                                

                                                    CD Interest Rates Forecast                                                

                                                    3 Month CD Rates                                                

                                                    6 Month CD Rates                                                

                                                    1 Year CD Rates                                                

                                                    3 Year CD Rates                                                

                                                    5 Year CD Rates                                                

                                                    10 Year CD Rates                                                

                                                    No Penalty CD Rates                                                

                                                    Jumbo CD Rates                                                






                                            Savings & Money Market Accounts                                            



                                                    Best High Yield Savings Accounts                                                

                                                    Best Business Savings Accounts                                                

                                                    Best Savings Accounts For Kids                                                

                                                    Best Money Market Accounts                                                






                                            Checking                                            



                                                    Best Checking Accounts                                                

                                                    Best High Yield Checking Accounts                                                

                                                    Best Business Checking Accounts                                                

                                                    Best Teen Checking Accounts                                                

                                                    Best Student Checking Accounts                                                






                                            Money Transfer                                            



                                                    International Money Transfer                                                

                                                    Currency Calculator                                                









                    Taxes                








Taxes




                                    Taxes                                



                                        Best Tax Software                                    



                                        Best Tax Software For The Self-Employed                                    



                                        Best Tax Software For Business                                    



                                        Best Tax Apps                                    



                                        Tax Brackets 2023-2024                                    



                                        Income Tax Calculator                                    



                                        Best Tax Relief Services                                    







                    Investing                








Investing




                                    Investing                                




                                            Investing Basics                                            



                                                    Best Online Brokers                                                

                                                    Best Online Brokers For Day Trading                                                

                                                    Best Robo Advisors                                                

                                                    Best Investment Apps                                                

                                                    Best Investment Management Apps                                                

                                                    Best Gold IRA Companies                                                

                                                    Gold Price Today                                                






                                            Wealth                                            



                                                    Financial Advisors                                                

                                                    Wealth Advisors                                                

                                                    Wealth Management                                                

                                                    Financial Planners                                                









                    Small Business                








Small Business




                                    Small Business                                




                                            Forming A Business                                            



                                                    Best LLC Services                                                

                                                    Best Registered Agent Services                                                

                                                    How to Start an LLC                                                

                                                    Cost to Form an LLC                                                






                                            HR & Payroll                                            



                                                    Best Payroll Services                                                

                                                    Best HR Software                                                

                                                    Best PEO Services                                                

                                                    Best Recruiting Software                                                






                                            Web Design & Hosting                                            



                                                    Best Website Builder                                                

                                                    Best Web Hosting Services                                                

                                                    Best Blogging Platforms                                                

                                                    Best E-Commerce Platforms                                                






                                            VoIP & Communication                                            



                                                    Best VoIP Services                                                

                                                    Best Cheap VoIP Services                                                

                                                    Best Business Cell Phone Plans                                                

                                                    How to Get a Free Business Phone Number                                                






                                            Project Management                                            



                                                    Best Project Management Software                                                

                                                    Best Free Project Management Software                                                

                                                    Best Gantt Chart Software                                                






                                            Privacy & Security                                            



                                                    Best VPNs                                                

                                                    Best Cheap VPN                                                

                                                    Best Antivirus Software                                                

                                                    Best Password Managers                                                









                    Legal                








Legal




                                    Legal                                




                                            Find A Lawyer                                            



                                                    Best Personal Injury Lawyers                                                

                                                    Best Car Accident Lawyers                                                

                                                    Best Truck Accident Lawyers                                                

                                                    Best Motorcycle Accident Lawyers                                                






                                            Legal Services                                            



                                                    Best Online Divorce Services                                                

                                                    Best Trademark Registration Services                                                

                                                    Best Name Change Services                                                

                                                    Best Prepaid Legal Services                                                











USA







UK





DE





IN





AU





IT





CA









USA
|
Change Region






Back to Forbes.com






USA







UK





DE





IN





AU





IT





CA









USA
|
Change Region






























 





 
 























You might be using an unsupported or outdated browser. To get the best possible experience please use the latest version of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Microsoft Edge to view this website.























                    advisor
                



                    Investing
                



Advertiser Disclosure
 
Inflation Outlook For 2024
Wayne DugganContributorWayne Duggan is a Forbes Advisor contributor. He is also a staff writer at Benzinga, where he has reported on breaking financial market news and analyst commentary related to popular stocks since 2014. Mr. Duggan is also the author of the book "Beating Wall Street With Common Sense" and has contributed news and analysis to U.S. News & World Report, Seeking Alpha, InvestorPlace.com and The Motley Fool. Mr. Duggan is a graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and resides in Biloxi, Mississippi.Wayne Duggan Wayne DugganContributorWayne Duggan is a Forbes Advisor contributor. He is also a staff writer at Benzinga, where he has reported on breaking financial market news and analyst commentary related to popular stocks since 2014. Mr. Duggan is also the author of the book "Beating Wall Street With Common Sense" and has contributed news and analysis to U.S. News & World Report, Seeking Alpha, InvestorPlace.com and The Motley Fool. Mr. Duggan is a graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and resides in Biloxi, Mississippi.Contributor Michael AdamseditorMichael Adams is lead editor, investing at Forbes Advisor. He's researched, written about and practiced investing for nearly two decades. As a writer, Michael has covered everything from stocks to cryptocurrency and ETFs for many of the world's major financial publications, including Kiplinger, U.S. News and World Report, The Motley Fool and more. Michael holds a master’s degree in philosophy from The New School for Social Research and an additional master's degree in Asian classics from St. John’s College.Reviewed ByMichael AdamsMichael AdamseditorMichael Adams is lead editor, investing at Forbes Advisor. He's researched, written about and practiced investing for nearly two decades. As a writer, Michael has covered everything from stocks to cryptocurrency and ETFs for many of the world's major financial publications, including Kiplinger, U.S. News and World Report, The Motley Fool and more. Michael holds a master’s degree in philosophy from The New School for Social Research and an additional master's degree in Asian classics from St. John’s College.editorReviewed ByUpdated: Jan 3, 2024, 9:30am 

    Editorial Note: We earn a commission from partner links on Forbes Advisor. Commissions do not affect our editors' opinions or evaluations.
 




 

Getty



The Federal Reserve has done an excellent job bringing down inflation in 2023 while avoiding a U.S. economic recession. Investors now anticipate the Federal Open Market Committee, or FOMC, will pivot from rate hikes to rate cuts by mid-2024.
However, Fed officials have repeatedly cautioned that the FOMC’s battle with inflation still has a long way to go. If the Fed pivots to rate cuts too soon, inflation could easily rebound in 2024. Even if the Fed can navigate a soft landing for the economy in 2024, economists still expect inflation to remain above the Fed’s long-term 2% inflation target.


PCE and CPI Inflation Trends
In November, the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis reported the personal consumption expenditures (PCE) price index, a popular measure of inflation, was up 3.0% from a year ago. Although it remained flat on a monthly basis.
The PCE index measures the changes in the prices of a basket of goods and services purchased by U.S. consumers.
Core PCE inflation, which excludes volatile energy and food prices and is the FOMC’s preferred inflation gauge, was up 3.5% on an annual basis in October and up 0.2% compared to September. Annual core PCE inflation has trended steadily lower throughout 2023 after peaking at 5.3% in February 2022.
The consumer price index (CPI), another closely watched U.S. inflation gauge, was up just 3.1% year-over-year in November and up 0.1% on a monthly basis. The CPI measures changes in prices paid by urban consumers for a specific basket of goods and services.
Core CPI inflation was 4.0% year-over-year in November and 0.3% on a monthly basis. CPI inflation peaked at a 40-year high of 9.1% in June 2022. Like PCE inflation, CPI inflation has been trending consistently lower since the Federal Reserve began raising interest rates in 2022.
Certain segments of the economy are responding extremely well to higher interest rates, but others could prove to be problematic. That would also pose a challenge for the Fed in 2024.
Housing Inflation
Shelter inflation remained stubborn in November, up 6.5% from a year ago and 0.4% from October. Inventory shortages have propped up housing prices in 2023 despite the average interest rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage peaking at a 23-year high of over 8% in October.
In fact, the median sales price of a U.S. home was up 4.1% over the 12 months that ended December 3, and the median monthly mortgage payment was up 15% over that same period, according to Redfin. Meanwhile, rental rates were up 0.5% on a monthly basis in November and are up 6.9% in the past year.
Energy Inflation
If housing has been a problem area for the Fed, energy prices have been a major help in the inflation battle as of late.
Energy prices were down 5.4% year-over-year and 2.3% on a monthly basis in November. U.S. energy prices have declined year-over-year for nine consecutive months:

Gasoline prices were down 8.9% year-over-year in November and 6.0% compared to October.
Fuel oil prices dropped an impressive 24.8% year-over-year in November and 2.7% on a monthly basis.
Utility gas service prices were also down 10.4% compared to November 2022.

Food Inflation
When the average American feels the pain of inflation, it’s often at the grocery store. Food prices were up 2.9% year-over-year in November and 0.2% compared to October.
The labor department reported prices for food at home were up 1.7% on an annual basis in November. Price indexes for cereals and bakery products, fruits and vegetables, nonalcoholic beverages and dairy and related products were all higher on a monthly basis. The meats, poultry, fish and eggs index was down on a monthly basis, as was the index for pork, chicken and beef.
The food away from home index was up 5.3% on an annual basis and 0.4% compared to October.
Wage Growth
Rising prices for products and services are just half of the equation when it comes to the impact higher prices have on the average American. Wages have also been on the rise throughout 2023, offsetting the impact of higher prices for many consumers.
In November, average U.S. wages grew 4.0% on an annual basis, outpacing 3.1% CPI inflation.
On a broader scale, national average wages and salaries per household were up nearly $15,000 from January 2021 to October 2023, according to the U.S. Congress Joint Economic Committee. The committee estimates the wage increase exceeds the negative impact of inflation by more than $3,500 during that same period.
2024 Inflation Projections
In its long-term economic projections from December, the FOMC forecasts core PCE inflation will drop from 3.2% in 2023 to 2.4% in 2024 and 2.2% in 2025.
Private sector forecasters are also optimistic about inflation in 2024. Private sector experts expect inflation to drop below 2.5% in 2024, according to the Federal Reserve Bank of St Louis. Goldman Sachs projects core PCE inflation will fall to around 2.4% by December 2024. The firm anticipates rebalancing in the auto, labor and housing rental markets will spearhead the disinflation.
Nigel Green, founder and CEO of deVere Group, says the late-year stock market rally in 2023 may be premature because the last leg of the Fed’s inflation fight could be the most difficult.
“The Fed will not want to take the risk of pivoting on policy too soon by cutting rates,” Green says.
“We believe that the data is still not strong enough for the central bank of the world’s largest economy to commit to reversing its most aggressive tightening campaign in decades—yet the markets seem ready to confidently and heavily price-in rate cuts.”
When Will the Fed Declare Inflation Victory?
Victory for the Federal Reserve will only come when inflation falls to its long-term target of 2%. However, the Fed will likely begin easing monetary policy well before it reaches 2% inflation to minimize the risk of overshooting to the downside. The timing and pace of that easing will depend on a number of factors, including monthly inflation data, labor market statistics and financial market conditions.
In a December speech, Fed Chair Jerome Powell said it’s still too early to be seriously discussing a pivot to interest rate cuts.
“Over the six months ending in October, core inflation ran at an annual rate of 2.5%, and while the lower inflation readings of the past few months are welcome, that progress must continue if we are to reach our 2% objective,” Powell said.
“It would be premature to conclude with confidence that we have achieved a sufficiently restrictive stance, or to speculate on when policy might ease.”
Bill Adams, chief economist for Comerica Bank, says Powell is likely not bluffing when he says rate cuts won’t be coming anytime soon.
“After badly missing their 2% inflation target in 2021 and 2022, the Fed wants to make sure inflation pressures are better under control before beginning to reduce interest rates. Comerica forecasts that the Fed will hold its federal funds target unchanged at the current level of 5.25% to 5.5% through mid-2024, and only begin to reduce the rate with a quarter percentage point cut in June,” Adams says.
Risk of Sticky Inflation
The final phase of the Federal Reserve’s war on inflation in 2024 may be focused on so-called “sticky” inflation.
Sticky inflation is price inflation that changes gradually over time and can be slow to respond to monetary policy adjustments. Sticky inflation tends to show up in goods and services such as children’s clothing, auto insurance, medical care products, rent and public transportation.
The Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta breaks down the overall CPI measure into a flexible CPI and a sticky CPI. In November 2023, the flexible portion of the CPI was down 0.3% on a 12-month basis, but the sticky portion of CPI was still up 4.7% from a year ago.
Flexible CPI inflation peaked in March 2022, but sticky CPI inflation peaked nine months later in December 2022 and has predictably been declining much more slowly than overall CPI inflation in 2023.
Quincy Krosby, chief global strategist for LPL Financial, says sticky inflation could be a thorn in the Fed’s side in 2024.
“Although inflation continues to ease, the Fed will still not declare total victory as the stubborn, so-called ‘sticky’ inflation is untangling at a slower than expected pace,” Krosby says.
She says the FOMC may err on the side of keeping interest rates elevated until it has tackled sticky inflation and completed the “last mile” of its campaign.
“For the Fed, cutting too early and then having to raise rates again soon after would be viewed as a policy error—not fatal, but an error, nonetheless.”




















Was this article helpful?


Share your feedback

















Send feedback to the editorial team




Rate this Article



 ★
 ★
 ★
 ★
 ★

 Please rate the article

Email










Please enter valid email address
Comments

We'd love to hear from you, please enter your comments.
Invalid email address
Submit

            














































































































Thank You for your feedback!




































Something went wrong. Please try again later.














Buying Guides


Best Investment Apps


Best Robo-Advisors


Best Crypto Exchanges


Best Crypto Staking Platforms


Best Online Brokers 


Best Money Market Mutual Funds


Best Investment Portfolio Management Apps


Best Low-Risk Investments


Best Fixed Income Investments






Basics


What Is Investing?


What Is A Brokerage Account?


What Is A Bond?


What Is the P/E Ratio?


What Is Leverage?


What Is Cryptocurrency?


What Is Inflation & How Does It Work?


What Is a Recession?


What Is Forex Trading?






Guides


How To Buy Stocks


How To Invest In Stocks


How To Buy Apple (AAPL) Stock


How To Buy Tesla (TSLA) Stock


How to Buy Bonds


How To Invest In Real Estate 


How To Invest In Mutual Funds


How To Calculate Dividend Yield


How To Find a Financial Advisor Near You


How To Choose A Financial Advisor






Metals


How To Buy Gold


Gold Price Today


Silver Price Today






Calculators


Investment Calculator


ROI Calculator


Retirement Calculator


Business Loan Calculator


Cryptocurrency Tax Calculator






Investing Reviews


Empower Review


Acorns Review


Betterment Review


SoFi Automated Investing Review


Wealthfront Review


Masterworks Review


Webull Review


TD Ameritrade Review


Robinhood Review


Fidelity Review
















                    Next Up In
                                            Investing




                            Buy The Dip: Best Cheap Stocks To Buy Now
                        



                            The Best Growth ETFs
                        



                            Why Is Inflation So High?
                        



                            What Are I Bonds?
                        



                            Acorns Review
                        



                            Robinhood Review
                        









More from












7 Best Fidelity ETFs Of March 2024

 By Barbara Friedberg Contributor								









7 Best Charles Schwab ETFs Of March 2024

 By Barbara Friedberg Contributor								









The 8 Best S&P 500 ETFs Of March 2024

 By Jeff Reeves Contributor								









Best SPDR ETFs Of March 2024

 By Barbara Friedberg Contributor								









10 Best Growth ETFs Of 2024

 By Barbara Friedberg Contributor								









The Best Value ETFs Of March 2024

 By Barbara Friedberg Contributor								









    Information provided on Forbes Advisor is for educational purposes only. Your financial situation is unique and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer financial advice, advisory or brokerage services, nor do we recommend or advise individuals or to buy or sell particular stocks or securities. Performance information may have changed since the time of publication. Past performance is not indicative of future results.  Forbes Advisor adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved, or otherwise endorsed by our partners.
      










                                Wayne Duggan
                            
Contributor



Wayne Duggan is a Forbes Advisor contributor. He is also a staff writer at Benzinga, where he has reported on breaking financial market news and analyst commentary related to popular stocks since 2014. Mr. Duggan is also the author of the book "Beating Wall Street With Common Sense" and has contributed news and analysis to U.S. News & World Report, Seeking Alpha, InvestorPlace.com and The Motley Fool. Mr. Duggan is a graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and resides in Biloxi, Mississippi.




 











© 2024 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.




































AdChoices
AdChoices
Privacy Statement
Terms and Conditions
About Us
Contact Us
Careers
Coupons
Newsroom
Forbes Quote of the Day
Advertise




















lorem


Are you sure you want to rest your choices?

cancel
ok



























 




    The Forbes Advisor editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Advisor site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site.  This site does not include all companies or products available within the market.  Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Advisor. While we work hard to provide accurate and up to date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Advisor does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. Here is a list of our partners who offer products that we have affiliate links for.